>> Will Sentance: All right, and
let's introduce our time going by now,
because now it's gonna really matter.
So we're at roughly zero
milliseconds here, I say.
Okay, one, whatever,
roughly zero milliseconds.
Okay, now, by the way, the stream only
starts getting data once
we set an on data event.
It doesn't start grabbing data from there,
so I hope it sets up, it goes and
finds it, the file.
It doesn't actually start pulling data
until we say what to do on the moment of
that data arriving in in its first batch,
otherwise,
it would just be pointless to pull it in
if we haven't set it to do something.
So it won't actually even go and pull it
in until we say on, and then it does, and
the first batch arrives.
And I'm gonna do it in blue, I guess,
because it's coming from the far system,
I suppose, and the first batch arrives.
>> [SOUND]
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, first batch arrives, and
we're going to have the auto-inserted,
auto-created and inserted data.
The first batch arrives of 64 kilobytes,
64 kilobytes of data, and
it's like, what was it?
It was tweet one, hello, and so forth.
Okay, the first batch though, or
that's not the closing curly brace,
cuz it's a massive JSON object, the first
64 kilobytes, first 64,000 characters.
In it's come, what's gonna be triggered?
The data event,
a data message is gonna be streamed out.
What function is gonna auto-run
at this point, Muhammad?
at this point, Michael?
Davit?
>> Davit: Do on new batch.
>> Will Sentance: Do on new batch,
excellent, and up it comes,
do on new batch.
And look at this, people,
input there it is,
it's data, there it comes in the string.
We create a new execution context.
Are we still in global?
There it is, global,
we have do on new batch.
We have POS, we have it auto-execute.
[SOUND] We have it auto-execute,
it's gonna auto-execute,
there it is, create an execution
context for it, there it is.
Into it we go, in the local memory,
we have our first argument.
Sorry, our first parameter is data.
Our first input argument is
the underlying tweet data.
I'm not sure I'm doing it in blue now,
I guess it's coming from the file system,
rather than from n,o but
it's kinda packet, I don't know, whatever.
Now, technically, people, again, it comes
in as a stream of zeros and ones, so
there's a buffer, but we're just going to,
for now, represent it as
stringified JSON, as JSON.
There it is, tweet one with hello, and
a lot of other data up to the end of it,
out in the first 64,000 kilobytes.
We reached this after,
what's 64,000 kilobytes gonna take?
It's gonna take six milliseconds,
is that right?
Not even that, one millisecond,
about a millisecond, very, very quick.
So we're at only one millisecond now,
look at this, people.
Not after 15 seconds, but after 1
millisecond, we started cleaning data.
And we do, what do we do?
We run, you're gonna run cleanTweets,
the function we saved, cleanTweets,
take in the data, and return it out, and
return it out cleaned
of the nasty words and
append it with some cleanedTweets.
cleanedTweets, is that in local memory?
>> Speaker 3: It's in global.
>> Will Sentance: In global, and that's
where we're gonna take the first cleaned
batch of JSON formatted data and
put it up here into that long string,
well, that empty string at that point.
Let's make sure we put clean Tweets on
the call stack cuz we are running it,
cleanTweets.
Okay, and that took us, I don't know,
it took us 0.5 milliseconds,
whatever, that's how long it
took us to run the cleaning.
>> Will Sentance: No, it took us,
these things are a little bit arbitrary,
but they are intentional.
It was 1.5 milliseconds.
>> Will Sentance: Slightly longer than it
took us to get our 64k kilobyte batch in.
Matt, go ahead.
>> Matt: So with this,
we can't necessarily guarantee that
it's gonna be the same order,
read and cleaned.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah.
>> Matt: The clean tweet isn't necessarily
gonna be the same.
>> Will Sentance: Well, maybe it will be,
because here's a problem.
Well, now, you know what?
People, let me just take a step further
back before we get the data cleaned out.
Sorry, everyone, in this execution
context where the cleaning is happening,
where the cleaning is happening,
we're not sure how it's doing it.
But it's taking a bit of time
to parse all that code, and
parse all those strings,
and find the bad tweets.
While that's happening, you won't
believe what's happening down here.
What do you think's happening, Zep?
>> Zep: Sending the next 64 batch.
>> Will Sentance: The next
64 kilobytes arrived.
>> Zep: Mm-hm.
>> Will Sentance: The next
64 kilobytes arrived in, and
it's continuation of the string of data.
What event gets triggered down here
when the next batch arrives, Davit?
>> Davit: It gets called to-
>> Will Sentance: What event
gets triggered?
>> Davit: Do on new batch.
>> Will Sentance: Data gets triggered,
exactly, Michael, which triggers?
>> Michael: Data on new batch.
>> Will Sentance: Do a new batch,
exactly, and it's ready to run, and folk,
I introduced this here but
we're gonna it see in greater detail
as the last big portion of what we do.
Now, we have problems.
We have a function that was auto-run, and
is running another function inside of it.
And while that's happening,
at about, I don't know,
three-quarters of the way through
the cleaning of that first batch,
that cleanTweets function's running, about
three-quarters the way through, uh-oh.
Do on new batch wants to run again,
and auto-run here.
Can it auto-run straight away?
It would literally have to sorta
pause the running of this function.
This is Matt's worries.
Now, hold on, would it run and
finish sooner or?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Will Sentance: And this,
people, is where we start
to need rules for Node for
when an auto-run function from
a Node is ever even allowed to run.
>> Will Sentance: And we're gonna see this
in sophisticated detail for, honestly,
more intellectual reasons.
There'll be the odd case in reality, well,
there's many cases you'll need to
understand it, but for senior dev and
even mid-level dev Node interviews,
it's crucial you understand it.
This is where we really
need to see it just for
our regular day-to-day working with Node.
I'm gonna start off with a simple
explanation, or simplified,
no, not simplified, no.
Ignoring quite a few pieces
of what the rules are for
when that auto-run function is
going to be allowed back in to run,
cuz we've now had it run at,
what was it, one millisecond?
And now it's two milliseconds and it wants
to run again, but we're 2 milliseconds,
1 plus 1.5 milliseconds, we're still
in here cleaning the first batch.
You feeling frustrated, Michael?
>> Michael: Very.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
Michael is frustrated.
Michael is the mayor,
I'm not allowed to talk about this.
He's a mayor of a major, major sub,
no, I'm not gonna talk about, okay,
not talking about this.
>> Michael: No, you can, it's fine.
>> Will Sentance: He's proud,
he's a very great mayor,
it's an honor to have him here.
And he's frustrated, so
you can only imagine what
the non-mayors among us are feeling,
powerless!
Powerless, don't panic, don't panic.
Turns out with actually the help of Node,
and
particularly the libuv
library behind the scenes,
so I'm actually gonna do it in purple.
>> Will Sentance: JavaScript,
with the help of Node, has set up queues,
queues, but
we'll start off with one queue.
A queue, we’ll call it because this
the function that was passed into another
function, it's known as a callback
function, any function you pass into.
We passed do on new batch
to be run later on,
to be called back into JavaScript.
We call it the callback queue, I'm gonna
be more specific on this later on,
cuz there's quite a few of them, but for
now, we're gonna say the callback queue.
And so at two milliseconds,
when the next butch arrives,
triggers out the data event and
says run do on new batch again,
two milliseconds,
we do not take do on new batch and
start auto-running it.
Where does it actually go, Michael?
>> Michael: Callback?
>> Will Sentance: Into the callback queue,
exactly, into the callback
queue is where it's gonna go, and
it's going to have to wait there.
Do on new batch stored there
while we continue running code here.
So let's finish up running the code.
Clean data does come out and gets
appended to what global variable, Sam?
>> Sam: cleanedTweets.
>> Will Sentance: cleanedTweets,
excellent, and it's got,
I don't know, still stringified.
We didn't JSON parse it yet,
we're just leaving as a script.
So we gotta append the next
piece of the string to JSON,
parse it in one go when we've done that.
We'll do that at the very,
very end when all the data's in, but
we're doing the cleaning as we go,
cuz that's the bit that takes a long time.
And into it is tweet one, hello,
and so forth, all the data there.
And we've executed cleanTweets,
the function we were running.
And so it gets what, Zep,
in terms of the call stack?
>> Zep: Popped.
>> Will Sentance: Popped off the call
stack, exactly, and we go back into
the running of do on new batch.
Well, there's nothing left to do in it,
so it's also?
>> Speaker 3: Get popped.
>> Will Sentance: Popped off the call
stack, and now,
we're back to global, okay?